Incoming livestream: Hi everyone, I'm Rowie. We're a bit of a late start, but we'll start now.
Incoming livestream: So welcome to my talk. It's a 20-minute session about agent reconnaissance.
Incoming livestream: What it actually means, and how we were able to find
Incoming livestream: Thousands of agents, and mapped down their capabilities.
Incoming livestream: Let's start to dive in.
Incoming livestream: We'll overview different platforms in this talk. One of them Would it be, microsoft Compiler Studio.
Incoming livestream: We'll also overview Agent Builder by OpenAI, Custom GPT by OpenAI,
Incoming livestream: and various AI middlewares, LLM runtimes, and model context protocol servers that we found… we found using open source intelligence.
Incoming livestream: And what we found… Was kind of amazing.
Incoming livestream: We found tens of thousands of agents just out there in the web. Out of them, thousands were unauthenticated. You could just get in and,
Incoming livestream: See what kind of information they have out there.
Incoming livestream: And we've actually seen some incredible stuff, like sensitive documents just out in the open.
Incoming livestream: Or even a business story with really high impact.
Incoming livestream: Those things are extremely risky.
Incoming livestream: So, let's talk a little bit more about what agendic recon actually means.
Incoming livestream: And white matters.
Incoming livestream: Well, to start this conversation, we need to understand that an agent is still an application.
Incoming livestream: Sure, it's connected to an LLM, it has tools.
Incoming livestream: But it's still a traditional application, and like every application, it has breadcrumbs, it has discoverable resources, it has endpoints, API, it can be embedded inside iframe.
Incoming livestream: And so, in the same way an application is discoverable.
Incoming livestream: Agents are also discoverable through the web. It's a subset of web discovery.
Incoming livestream: The second important thing is… That agents are highly integrated in the enterprise.
Incoming livestream: A lot of agents have credentials embedded in them.
Incoming livestream: connected to different enterprise data sources. They can sometimes change, data inside the enterprise. So, in a way, agents are a gateway to your enterprise.
Incoming livestream: And that makes them extremely risky.
Incoming livestream: And so… When we talk about discovery, Attackers make use of a… of different issues.
Incoming livestream: Most of them are listed here.
Incoming livestream: They make use of common design patterns that are used when creating resources that expose your exposure. They make use of out-of-the-box config because it decreases the self-space, and we're gonna talk about it.
Incoming livestream: They make use of, platform security gaps.
Incoming livestream: Some platforms have known issues.
Incoming livestream: And as we all know, prompt injection, for instance.
Incoming livestream: Not really a solvable problem as of now.
Incoming livestream: And another thing, and this has been trained security for decades now, security by obscurity doesn't really work.
Incoming livestream: So let's start and overview the different platforms.
Incoming livestream: We start by Copilot Studio. Now, when you create a Copilot Studio resource, you're basically creating a website with an agent embedded in there, connected to your enterprise resources, and embedded inside a chat, like you see over here.
Incoming livestream: But under the hood, a URL is actually created. And this URL comprises of various components, some of them have iantropy, others have…
Incoming livestream: more… pretty… more predictable, and let's just go over them one by one. And we'll start with the purple one that you see over here.
Incoming livestream: That's the environment.
Incoming livestream: Now, an environment is essentially a container for your tenant's enterprise resources, and every tenant is created with a default environment.
Incoming livestream: And like you can see over here, the default environment is
Incoming livestream: Always create it with the prefix default, followed by the tenant ID.
Incoming livestream: How do we get this tenant ID? Well… Turns out, AD internal
Incoming livestream: conducted the research, and they found an undocumented Microsoft API that, by giving it the domain, you can fetch back the talent ID.
Incoming livestream: So that's how we can resolve The environment variable.
Incoming livestream: Now, what about this one? This is called the solution prefix. A solution prefix is actually created to create… to achieve uniqueness in the agents that you create inside your environment.
Incoming livestream: This solution prefix is essentially an alphanumeric string between the, length of 5 and 8 alphanometic characters, so it has pretty high entropy.
Incoming livestream: However, like I said earlier, most people use the defaults.
Incoming livestream: And we found that the default, the cell space is kind of small.
Incoming livestream: It comprises of the CR prefix, followed by 2 to 3 alphanumeric strings.
Incoming livestream: So… It can be fast.
Incoming livestream: But here's the thing.
Incoming livestream: It's not the only thing that you need to… that you need to find, because it's also connected to
Incoming livestream: An agent.
Incoming livestream: So, we have to find, like, a solution prefix along with an agent.
Incoming livestream: Well, turns out, a lot of environments are created with some default bots.
Incoming livestream: that are pretty much common, Copilot 1, Copilot 2, 1, 2, 3, Test, AI, AI bot, and by finding just one of these, along with the fuzzing that we did earlier, you can find a solution for a fix.
Incoming livestream: Once you've found the solution prefix.
Incoming livestream: You can basically enumerate and find different agents in this environment.
Incoming livestream: And… Again, this is something every developer would do.
Incoming livestream: Mix and match by Atlassian, database, dashboards, samples, integration, tests, dev, prod.
Incoming livestream: Obviously, it depends on the industry.
Incoming livestream: But it's pretty easy to fuzz, and using that approach, we were able to find
Incoming livestream: Tens of thousands of those agents.
Incoming livestream: Taking it a step further, we also took leverage of,
Incoming livestream: Power Platform API, and we were also able to figure out whether those agents require authentication or not.
Incoming livestream: And like you can see over here, You can also extend it.
Incoming livestream: By using subdomain enumeration, and expand the number of agents that you can find even more.
Incoming livestream: And that's just… that's…
Incoming livestream: Just so you'd understand how much of a problem that is, AAD Internal actually had a website that, by giving it a domain, you could have fetched back the tenant ID, and they had to turn it down because it was actually abused.
Incoming livestream: Now let's move to the next slot form.
Incoming livestream: Now we're gonna talk about Agent Builder by OpenAI. Agent Builder works in the same way that Copilot Studio works, but the only difference is that the developer is in charge of the deployment.
Incoming livestream: And that's exactly how it can create an attack surface, because…
Incoming livestream: OpenAI recommends a bunch of, Gita Rebo Starter Kits.
Incoming livestream: that have well-known names, so much that with the fact that most agents are also deployed using Vercel and Render.
Incoming livestream: And the cell space of the different addresses of the agents is pretty limited. Add that to the fact that
Incoming livestream: Some of them also contain the branch name, and you'll reduce the search space even more.
Incoming livestream: To check if an agent exists, you basically need to call createSession, receive the client secret.
Incoming livestream: Check if it was valid or not, and if it was, you've got an agent out there.
Incoming livestream: And as you can see over here,
Incoming livestream: We were able to witness some of these agents, and some of them had think are…
Incoming livestream: Screen is a problem.
Incoming livestream: But essentially, we were able to see that,
Incoming livestream: Those agents might actually contain some confidential information that was not supposed to be there.
Incoming livestream: Next, we're gonna overview custom GPTs.
Incoming livestream: Custom GPT is… A way for, enterprises to connect to, different,
Incoming livestream: different GPTs with different capabilities, but the problem is that,
Incoming livestream: It's by design, but everyone can see it. And by that, you also look at your attack surface. So, whenever you look at a different custom GPT, you can see the…
Incoming livestream: different capabilities that it has from the default tools. In this case, you can see that it has Python, browser, and DALI.
Incoming livestream: But it can also contain custom connectors, such as this one, that,
Incoming livestream: historical GMLs. Now, again, this is by design, it's by no means… Traditional recon.
Incoming livestream: It gives an attacker a lot of information, and you need to be aware of that.
Incoming livestream: Next, we, overviewed, using open source intelligence, a bunch of AI metallics. And by that, I mean LLM runtimes, AI Gateway, model context protocol servers, and we used various methods for that.
Incoming livestream: So… If you look at Shodan, For instance.
Incoming livestream: Is this the right one? Yeah, okay. If you look at Sharon, for instance, and you look for the well-defined MCP session ID, you will be able to find hundreds of thousands of just open MCP servers. Some of them are authenticated, some of them are not, but they're just out there in the open.
Incoming livestream: Another thing we were able to find was using an HTML hash.
Incoming livestream: And we literally found, an opened Copilot API, Got its swagger.
Incoming livestream: And it had an exposed endpoint of purgeVectorDB.
Incoming livestream: Now, I don't really know what they have in this VectorDB, but it shouldn't be public.
Incoming livestream: Another interesting resource, Instant Giesel says, of MCPA registries. MCPA registries contain a lot of information. They contain the backend URL, they contain different tools that MCP are… that are available in the MCPs in the JSON file, and
Incoming livestream: Again.
Incoming livestream: gives information about your services. This can be dangerous.
Incoming livestream: Now, this is actually very interesting,
Incoming livestream: Backlinks can also be used for that.
Incoming livestream: As you can see in this example, in Copilot Studio, for example, you can embed,
Incoming livestream: co-pilot or an agent inside an iframe. Now, once you do that, you essentially created a backlink for your agent.
Incoming livestream: So we used backlink search tools to search for copilotstudio.microsoft.com, and that alone showed us 2,500 open agents in the web.
Incoming livestream: And like I said earlier, some of them were just unauthenticated.
Incoming livestream: Same thing with, Amazon agents.
Incoming livestream: Just out there in the open.
Incoming livestream: Now, some notable challenges that we had when, when we did this exercise, we had some issues with rate limiting that we solved, some issues with headless browser fingerprinting, and, like.
Incoming livestream: I described earlier, we also had to reduce the search space for some of the solution prefixes.
Incoming livestream: If you're interested to learn more,
Incoming livestream: I can talk about… I can talk about that for the session, but it's also important to note that we have an open source tool called PowerPoint, and you can see the committee story over there.
Incoming livestream: All out in the open.
Incoming livestream: Now, up until now, we talked about discovery of agents, but why does it actually matter? Like, what's the impact?
Incoming livestream: you're gonna say, okay, Roy, we have guardrails, why do we care? Well, you do care, because…
Incoming livestream: First of all, attackers can steal.
Incoming livestream: Keep on probing your agents, and understand what kind of information it has, what's the knowledge source of it.
Incoming livestream: Sometimes it's kind of easy, you just need to ask for it. Sometimes it has guardrails, sometimes it doesn't have guardrails, and attacks can also probe for the different tools that exist in your system. That is extremely risky.
Incoming livestream: As you can see in this example, to fetch the tools, we just have to ask for it, and…
Incoming livestream: Add a little bit more beef to…
Incoming livestream: Basically confused the different activations for the… of the guardrails.
Incoming livestream: It's not walletproof, and that's why your agents shouldn't be public.
Incoming livestream: Unless intended to.
Incoming livestream: Now…
Incoming livestream: To help you with that, we created PowerPoint. PowerPoint is an open-source tool that helps you assess the posture of your agents and identify whether they're public or not.
Incoming livestream: And it basically entails all of the information that I just showcased in this presentation, and will go over the different models that it has.
Incoming livestream: So the first one is Copilot Studio Hunter.
Incoming livestream: And, like we… like I showcased earlier, you just give it the domain name of the given,
Incoming livestream: of the given organization, it will find your tenant ID,
Incoming livestream: Eventually, we'll find the solution prefix, and once it does that, it will iterate through different agents in this environment one by one. And if they're public, it will also list out the different capabilities.
Incoming livestream: Another model that we have is Agent Builder Hunter. Agent Builder Hunter receives a list of words.
Incoming livestream: Basically, our name of the agent, and…
Incoming livestream: Tries to identify whether it's public or not, and if it has any exposed endpoints.
Incoming livestream: You can see over here, it actually found some.
Incoming livestream: And… fund.
Incoming livestream: exposed MCP tools.
Incoming livestream: Another model is Custom GPTunter, we're given a search term.
Incoming livestream: Showcases a different, different custom GPTs, along with the capabilities, whether if they're default or custom.
Incoming livestream: And last but not least, LLM Hound, where, given a search term that you're looking for, the name of your middleware, it will find AI middlewares that, again, are just out there in the open. You can use various.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: Hello! This talk is called, Your Agent Works For Me. It's gonna be, hopefully, interesting and entertaining as well.
Incoming livestream: I just want to get started right away with, some source code. So we have a Go program here, it's a data structure, customer data structure.
Incoming livestream: And, there's some code to add a customer, delete a customer, right? But one thing is missing. There's no edit customer function.
Incoming livestream: So somebody already, luckily, created a ticket for this, right? Feature request, hey, we want to add the editCustomerByID function, right? Seems like a useful feature that we want to add.
Incoming livestream: Who here would feel comfortable assigning this ticket to your AI agent? You know, just, like, have it work on it.
Incoming livestream: We have a couple courageous ones. Donato is like, yeah, let's go.
Incoming livestream: So what happens if you do that? So this is the source code, this is the linear ticket, feature request.
Incoming livestream: And we go ahead here, use Vinsurf, we ask it to, hey, you know, work on this ticket.
Incoming livestream: It has MCP integration, will reach out, load the ticket.
Incoming livestream: And things happen really fast now.
Incoming livestream: Creates a plan to work on it. Here, you can already see the exploit, actually, in the plan.
Incoming livestream: But it will actually run a remote command that is in the linear ticket, right? We got remote command execution.
Incoming livestream: And… You might wonder why that is, so if you go to the ticket here, copy this text.
Incoming livestream: put it in this tool I have, the ASCII smuggler does the prompt injection that actually says, to launch the calculator.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so this was a linear ticket. What about code review itself? This is the first time you might see Apple Xcode. I have not actually seen anybody do a prompt injection with Apple Xcode, so I thought it's gonna be fun to show one. So here's source code, there's no visible prompt injection in the source code here, but what if we ask to Xcode to review this file?
Incoming livestream: It's gonna reboot it.
Incoming livestream: Loads the file.
Incoming livestream: analyzes it, it does see hidden Unicode tag characters, right, which we humans don't see, but the LLM sees. It starts reading the config file for some reason.
Incoming livestream: Now something interesting happens. It decodes these Unicode characters, right? Now you see the actual prompt injection payload that asks it to add source code into the file.
Incoming livestream: that is gonna send data out to the attacker, and it also asks it to call a tool called RunSnippet. So in Xcode, you can actually… the attacker can run
Incoming livestream: Source code on the fly.
Incoming livestream: And this is what is exploited here, to have a seamless end-to-end XYZ.
Incoming livestream: What is important to know is with AppleX code, it's actually pretty good, because if you have a good environment set up, you have a sandbox, but if you have your entitlements that allow internet connection, this will work by default.
Incoming livestream: So yeah, we have remote command execution, we have data exfiltration, right? But we can, of course, do a lot more. This is now a demonstration of something I have not shown before, Microsoft Enterprise Copilot, and how we can actually add memories and compromise Copilot in long-term persist… achieve long-term persistence.
Incoming livestream: So, this is Copilot. I have a demo file that we're gonna analyze.
Incoming livestream: asks you for the key takeaways of this file, it analyzes the file, and on top here, you can see it invoke the memory tool.
Incoming livestream: And now Copilot is gonna be compromised forever, right? And there's two specific memories this exploit added. The first one is just that I'm 102 years old.
Incoming livestream: The second one is a command to run a Commodore 64 simulator, and now if you have a conversation with your co-pilot, this is the enterprise co-pilot, right? So imagine this is about financial information, about your organizational structure, all of this information is now falsified going forward.
Incoming livestream: This was actually fixed by Microsoft, last December.
Incoming livestream: Okay, you might want to see the prompt behind this, and interestingly, right, these are not very complicated attacks, right? It's just natural language, and there's often some trickery and some ease-in to get the language model's attention, and then add the tool invocations to add these memories.
Incoming livestream: So we have persistence.
Incoming livestream: And we can, of course, combine all of this, right? We can have data exploitation, persistence, loading remote commands…
Incoming livestream: And there's an example I gave a black hat with JetGPT to get, continuous data exfiltration, and I called it Spyber back then, two years ago. And the same is possible with coding agents, right? With Windsor, for instance, I demonstrated that you can load remote commands, right, an indirect prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: You compromise the agent's memory, so long-term persistence.
Incoming livestream: with the instructions to continue compromising the user every single conversation turn, and send the data out to the attacker continuously. Every time you type something.
Incoming livestream: It will be sent to the attacker.
Incoming livestream: And I have a demo video of this that I've shown before, so I'm gonna skip it here, because it's a longer video, but it just shows you this attack end-to-end.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so we have persistence and data exfiltration. And…
Incoming livestream: When I once talked with Ben Nasi, who, they released this paper very recently called the Promptware Kill Chain, I always talked about an AI kill chain, but this paper highlights this much, much better. It's really that we see a prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: that it's not just a single injection anymore, right? It's a complex malware even, right? So, we should start maybe using the promptware to highlight that, you know, the injection is the technique.
Incoming livestream: And then what you do later is a complex set of instructions to achieve an objective, right? And that is called promptware.
Incoming livestream: that aligns along the kill chain, right? Data exfiltration, persistence, and so on.
Incoming livestream: So yeah, prompt injection to Malibu, to prompt whale.
Incoming livestream: And now I want to talk about something I haven't really explicitly talked about before, and I hope this is going to be very interesting. It's called delayed tool invocation.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: when Googlebot, it was called Googlebot back in the day, I was experimenting a lot with tooling locations and so on, and so I created this idea of, I want to just have it call all the tools, right? So I… but it didn't work. It would call many, many tools.
Incoming livestream: change with an indirect prompt injection, but it would… one tool, it just refused to call during an indirect prompt injection. So this is actually the demo from when I experimented. Back then, I had this image, I just gave it all the instructions to call all the tools, and it would just blindly call them all.
Incoming livestream: But it would not invoke the workspace tool, right? The tool that has sensitive information, the tool that has your email, your drive, and so on. So that was not invocable. So this means there was an actual security control in place that Google put in place to prevent that from happening, because of indirect prompt interjection.
Incoming livestream: So, a couple observations had, right? The Gemini Workspace tool gets deactivated, we cannot chain it, but then I thought about, maybe it requires a user, explicit user intent. So in the initial prompt, when you type, you talk about email, then it will activate the tool, so to speak.
Incoming livestream: But I was wondering, can we do this maybe in a later conversation turn two? Maybe the tool becomes active again. So this is my… my research back then was focused. Can we activate a tool later, or is it becoming available?
Incoming livestream: And I found something that worked, actually, and then I contacted Google, and it was really cool, actually, because the Google security team asked me to send them an email to actually see if this really works.
Incoming livestream: So this is the email that I sent to Google back then, and this is where the prompt rejection is, in the middle of the email. And the important part is that I asked the LLM to repeat the attack
Incoming livestream: To continue… when the user continues their conversation, right, the only condition is now that the user starts… continues typing after the prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: then invoke the workspace tool to load a, like, some sensitive document about, I guess, about cats.
Incoming livestream: Not that creative, but yeah. And I sent that in, and then a few minutes later, I got back that it actually worked. That it was, like, reaching out, and they were able to reproduce this behavior.
Incoming livestream: So that was really cool. And then I built a couple of exploits around this technique.
Incoming livestream: One very specific one, this is now a year ago, was actually similar with Microsoft Copilot, we could add memories, and I want to show you this exploit.
Incoming livestream: We have here an indirect prompt injection, but I always use
Incoming livestream: files often in my demos, because it's very easy to create test cases around files when not having to load remote files from servers and so on. But you can see here, we summarize this document, and in the middle there is actually this condition, this delayed tool invocation.
Incoming livestream: And now, if the user continues the conversation.
Incoming livestream: the tool gets invoked. So the tool becomes active again, even though it was not active in the very beginning, now the tool is active, and we invoke the memory tool, and now have a long-term persistent memory in Gemini.
Incoming livestream: And similar now too, right? You can see the memory, and now in future conversations, Gemini will think this is true, or this belongs to my memory.
Incoming livestream: Okay, and there was one additional thing that I found just last November. There was a really great Black Hat Talk last year from Ben Nassi and Steph Cohen and a few others called Invitation is All You Need.
Incoming livestream: Where they used a lot of these techniques to show some really, really amazing exploits, like, you know, opening your windows in the home and all of that, all driven by Gemini.
Incoming livestream: And I looked at it again last November, and then I found a really interesting bypass, and there's a neat sound for this, I don't know if…
Incoming livestream: Can't hear that. But… that's…
Incoming livestream: I had this Google Home device that I hadn't used for a long time, so I set it up, connected it, and I wanted to invoke it and see if I can find a bypass.
Incoming livestream: And in this case, we continue the conversation, so there's an exploit.
Incoming livestream: And I actually had found a bypass, so it's now connecting to my Google Home.
Incoming livestream: It's invoking the speaker.
Incoming livestream: is here. Trust no AI.
Incoming livestream: So, you can see, we can actually, with an indirect impromptu, they call it twice.
Incoming livestream: It says… Johan is here.
Incoming livestream: Trust no AI.
Incoming livestream: So we can actually invoke, you know, physical things now, too, right? This is sort of the demo. And the reason… the way it has worked was that
Incoming livestream: Some of the metadata of the document become part of the prompt.
Incoming livestream: web…
Incoming livestream: That's my interpretation. I don't… I do not have access to the source code to validate this, but this is why… what I think is happening.
Incoming livestream: Is that if you have, like, an intent signal in some of that metadata.
Incoming livestream: Gemini thinks this is your user's intent, and it activates the tool. So in the very… the title of the document is called Broadcast to Living Room, and that is the intent signal that the tool becomes available. That's my interpretation, right? That's, if somebody's here from Google, I would really like to know if that is, actually really what happens behind the scenes.
Incoming livestream: Okay, but it's not just Google Gemini. We can also do delayed tool invocation in ChatGPT. ChatGPT, to my knowledge, does not have an actual security control that I showed here earlier with Google, but it still is a technique that allows you to bypass a lot of guardrails if you do these delayed tool invocations.
Incoming livestream: And you, here you can see there is a, personalization option in ChatGPT, by default.
Incoming livestream: It's set to default, but now we're gonna do a delay tool invocation to modify that personalization option.
Incoming livestream: So we summarized this document.
Incoming livestream: And it's gonna summarize the document, but repeat… the LLM is repeating an attack. And what is important, though, is that this doesn't actually have to happen, that the LLM writes it here, too, because it's already in the document. But my thinking was always that I want to put more attention to the attack, so I have the LLM repeat it.
Incoming livestream: So there's… it's more likely to actually succeed. And you can see here, we write yes, and it invokes the tool, and it's now…
Incoming livestream: The personality of my ChatGPT has now been modified to quirky.
Incoming livestream: With this delayed tool invocation technique. I also, this is possible to read remote documents and all of that. You can seem to be able to invoke a lot of tools that way. I reported this, of course, to, OpenAI, and they found it very interesting, but it's not a security problem. It's more like a guardrail problem, so they shared this with the…
Incoming livestream: the guardrail team, I guess, or the safety team.
Incoming livestream: And there is a document, a paper that came out from Google very recently that I found so fascinating. It's,
Incoming livestream: Prompt repetition improves non-reasoning LLMs, so if you repeat certain text twice, like the query twice, it actually improves the LLM's performance. And this is similar to this attention thinking I had about repeating the attack twice, that it actually brings more attention to the attack, and it's more likely going to succeed.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so you can see there's a lot of things happening, and I always think about, oh, we… with all those naming changes, we've kind of become offensive context engineers, I guess, as red teamers. And there's a lot more about delayed tool invocation, but this would make the whole thing,
Incoming livestream: A 40-minute talk.
Incoming livestream: And I do know I have a little bit more time, so I'm gonna cover a few things that I have that are, I think, very interesting. But many of the things you just saw, they are not new or novel, right? We've seen this before. Data exfiltration, all of these things are not new, right?
Incoming livestream: So last year, I thought, oh, this is the year everything's gonna change. We're gonna have stronger boundaries, we're gonna add less autonomy, we have less trust, right? The opposite is happening. We have more automation, more features, more trust. We have MCP, we have skills, we have AI browsers for some reason.
Incoming livestream: And we all got open claw, right? And so, things are moving really, really quickly.
Incoming livestream: And, there's this thing happening in industry that I call the normalization of deviance, where we fundamentally know that we shouldn't be trusting these models, right? The output is not trustworthy. We do not control or know exactly what's going on. But…
Incoming livestream: the more we use it, the more we start trusting it, the more we normalize, believe we can trust it, but then very drastic things can happen. Here, for instance, I think most of you know this example where it just deleted, OpenCloud just deleted the inbox, the real inbox of a user, nuked it all.
Incoming livestream: And the reason when people ask the person, this is a person working at Meta, why this happened, it's like, oh, I used it on a test system for a while, and it worked, without a problem. So I felt comfortable to use it on the production system, right? And this is an example of this normalization of deviance.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, by now I talked a lot already about, and I hope you haven't hit your context limit yet.
Incoming livestream: Because there's one more thing that I think is really important I want to share, which is a kind of project I've been working on for a while, and it's sort of this idea that command and control infrastructure, right, I want to move it up to the prompt level. Like, not work with operating system commands anymore, but have a prompt
Incoming livestream: command and control with prompts. And, right, it will work, or it works with any agent, with any language, and it's an abstraction from the operating system, right? This is generally happening with agents. We have an abstraction layer, and attackers will leverage that same abstraction layer.
Incoming livestream: And the first time I talked about this was at one of the Black Hat talks, and I have a blog post about what I call the AI domination zombies, and so on. And this is called Agent Commander. It's a tool that, you know, once you have an indirect prompt detection, or somehow you compromise an agent, you can have it join
Incoming livestream: this command and control center, and the thing you do is you prompt your agents, right? You send,
Incoming livestream: Prompts down to the agents, and then they act on those prompts.
Incoming livestream: And you might wonder how we can compromise them, right? There is actually a lot of good research out already from various stakeholders, like Xenity, Hidden Layer, you have some good examples of how to compromise open claw, for instance. My research also focused on open claw, and I backed out the heartbeat. I'm gonna skip some of this here. Oh, this is interesting.
Incoming livestream: So one thing, as an attacker, you want to be always hiding from the actual user of the system, right? When the user intacts with the open claw, with the open claw, you don't want to show one of the attack payloads or results into the user's channel, right?
Incoming livestream: So one way you can hide is by adding certain strings in your message as an attacker. If, for instance, the heartbeat ends with the string heartbeat OK, it will not be shown in the UI.
Incoming livestream: or if a message starts with a capital no underscore reply, it will not be shown in the UI. So as a detector, you can add these strings, and then you kind of hide
Incoming livestream: And yeah, so I have this example where you cat, here you can see that the default heartbeat.
Incoming livestream: And there's actually a really interesting thing I learned from a,
Incoming livestream: The alias is Vegan MOSFET. He has, like, a blog post about how you can configure OpenClaw with a PubSub subscription, so it gets notified if there's a new email arriving in Gmail, and it will automatically analyze it, right? It's a built-in feature of OpenClaw.
Incoming livestream: And that can be used with a prompt injection, right, to get a zero click. You just really send an email to your agent. All you need to know is the email address of the agent, or if your agent is your own personal inbox, very problematic, right? But you get an email, and then 10 seconds later, you are exploited.
Incoming livestream: And so I built on top of this, and made… and combined this with my heartbeat idea. So this is the exploit, a system message, the crunch job ran that read the email, right? It was notified, it analyzed the email, and then it fetched the remote instructions and just appended that to the heartbeat.
Incoming livestream: So now, then wait for, like, 20 minutes, or whatever the next heartbeat happens, and the heartbeat file looks like this, right? And this is what I call promptware. You can see, this is not, like, a prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: This is a complex set of instructions that tell the agent to become a… to join a command and control server, right? But all prompt-based.
Incoming livestream: And then, yeah, it joins the command and control, and now you can prompt it, right? You can say, hey, do a security assessment of yourself, and tell me all your problems, right? And it goes ahead and tells you, my name, server name, my IP address, my server, my uptime, right? It's like full pen test report, right here, if I tell you.
Incoming livestream: It tells you about how it's configured, the environment variables, and so on. So it's really about to have this idea of prompt templates in the command and control system, where you pick a template, and you just submit it down, and then it runs those instructions.
Incoming livestream: A feature I feel I'm really proud of is actually that you can, basically say, hey.
Incoming livestream: browse to this website, take a screenshot, and it will upload the screenshot to the Chromatic control server. So you say, hey, browse to the inbox, take a screenshot, and you share the screenshot with me. And the agent will just do that, right? And the user doesn't know it's happening, because it's all hidden from the user's interface.
Incoming livestream: And it's not just working with OpenClaw. My build test was that I wanted to use a different one, and then I used KimiClaw, and here you can see the prompt injection exploit that hides itself here.
Incoming livestream: And then KimiCloud joins the command and control server as well, and it's the same way, right? This is the prompt injection payload.
Incoming livestream: how we added the information to the heartbeat, and then you can ask about the human, what… who is your human? What's your human's name, right? What's the human's email address? And you can dispatch tasks, right? It's really this abstraction from the commands of the operating system. The attackers will move a level higher.
Incoming livestream: And yeah, then, because this was, Alibaba infrastructure, I was, like, curious how they set it up. I found this is worth sharing. So there is this,
Incoming livestream: SSH key, authorized keys file, and…
Incoming livestream: there's a keys file that is a MacBook Pro, which makes you realize, right, startups often don't have a lot of security controls. So probably every single employee
Incoming livestream: of Moonjot.ai has this key on their laptop and can access your VM, right? That's my assumption, because this is very not… not normal that you would have an authorized keys file from a MacBook Pro in your…
Incoming livestream: in your machine.
Incoming livestream: Then… and this is now the final statement, right?
Incoming livestream: we can turn this agent into a red team up, into a pen test, right? We can make it rogue, install security tools, and then have it operate. And this is, I think, the big…
Incoming livestream: takeaway…
Incoming livestream: in a way that, from a red-theming point of view, I'm really wondering how things will change as we see an adversary not needing to
Incoming livestream: A zero-day upfront, right?
Incoming livestream: system will get compromised, and then they walk through the network without knowing a single serial day, possibly, right? Because they're gonna find them on the fly, in real… maybe possibly in a year or so, too, maybe even in real time, right?
Incoming livestream: Because the LLMs are going to be so powerful to just find problems, navigate the network very quickly.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so that was Your Agent Works for Mina. I hope this was interesting and entertaining. Thank you very much.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, I'm Johan, by the way. I forgot to introduce myself.
Incoming livestream: Good morning.
Incoming livestream: Hey, morning. Thanks for the talk. So, around the tool invocations, right, you suggested that, LLM interprets and
Incoming livestream: content decides the tool. So, do you think that this is, like, fundamentally flawed now? Like, between the AI agent's implementation itself? Not fundamentally flawed. The actual thing that Google implemented was actually a positive thing, because they added a security control that really limits the toolchaining
Incoming livestream: capability, right? So I think that is very positive. That the tool becomes later active again, right? That is,
Incoming livestream: is kind of a bypass and something we need to figure out, I think, or they need to figure out how they can lock that down better, right?
Incoming livestream: Without always having to ask the user, because the really good thing is here, the user doesn't have to be asked, right? Because always these prompts, yes, yes, yes, is not very useful.
Incoming livestream: So, and in terms of prompts, now, because you showed a demo, which was pretty nice of…
Incoming livestream: You know, how tool invoca- like, delayed tool invocation causes issues, right? So would you say that it's more of, like, a state manipulation, vulnerability attack, rather than, input validation? I think it's a fundamental attack or behavior that, within the LLM, within the transformer, right?
Incoming livestream: We target the attention layer, and then because the model is hooked up to
Incoming livestream: invoke outside tools, right? We target the attention layer to bring attention to a certain thing we want to have happen.
Incoming livestream: If that makes sense. And I think so one question is around the trust boundary, right? Invoking tools, versus the external content. So, where do you think, like, the best trust boundary would rely? Because definitely that's gonna be, like, a debate in, within a lot of teams, right?
Incoming livestream: how the trust boundary can be established. I, I might not have gotten the question. So, like, external content, like where, you know, the content is being retrieved, along with the tool invocation, right? So, what's the best strategy of…
Incoming livestream: fundamentally putting, like, trust boundaries between it. Yeah, like, definitely, you should assume, if you don't have a control in place, that the tool can be invoked, right? By indirect prompt injection, or by the model itself, right?
Incoming livestream: And then you need to think, what's the risk scenario, right? What is the downstream impact of the tool being invoked? And that's where you need to think about the security controls, right? What can it access? What can it do? And you can prevent toolchaining, right?
Incoming livestream: It doesn't have to happen that the web tool can chain other tools in a row, right? There's all, like, actual security controls that can help mitigate impact.
Incoming livestream: There's an entire pile of new security tools that have been just coming out fairly recently for OpenClaw.
Incoming livestream: I was curious if you had played with, Claw Shield or any of the other ones, and seen whether they make any mod…
Incoming livestream: notable difference in the difficulty? I have not. The space is evolving so quickly, so it's really difficult to keep up. Even just OpenCloud itself adds a lot of mitigations as we speak, right? They have, like, over 200, last time I checked, over 220 security vulnerabilities they actually fixed within 2 or 3 weeks, right? So there's a lot happening right now.
Incoming livestream: Anybody else?
Incoming livestream: Gotti?
Incoming livestream: I wanna do this thing that I do once in a while, and embarrass this guy.
Incoming livestream: This is kind of a… well, we move things around quite drastically. You're gonna have to pull this down, sir.
Incoming livestream: Well, remove the things… did I just put you down? I didn't mean to do that. Sorry.
Incoming livestream: I'm just fat, not tall. Okay.
Incoming livestream: I don't do this all the time, but once in a while, I know somebody on a personal level, and they have done something not just amazing technically… I mean, this guy's a slouch, what do they know technically, right?
Incoming livestream: But, also for the community.
Incoming livestream: And what you don't know about Johan, or you might, is that he has done a lot of stuff, and not just for the lols, but just because he thought he should.
Incoming livestream: For example, the month of AI vulnerabilities.
Incoming livestream: Right? He just came out, out of nowhere. I'm not gonna drop the mic, they're expensive, but mic dropped, with every single day, another vulnerability.
Incoming livestream: Every single day. And forget finding the vulnerabilities, or proving they're real, or even doing… going as far as reporting them. Just imagine aligning all the reporting to happen on the same day, so he releases things on the same day.
Incoming livestream: That is a superpower.
Incoming livestream: And truly, he's one of the most appreciated people in our space, but usually for his technical chops.
Incoming livestream: And I just appreciate him and how he helps people, and more than that, he's one of these people out there in the world that I nag for things. Hey, let's do this, hey, let's do that, and he's not afraid of saying no.
Incoming livestream: Which is amazing, because I feel free to come to him again.
Incoming livestream: And number two, because sometimes he says yes. So, please, let's just once again give him a hint, because…
Incoming livestream: In what is now…
Incoming livestream: the stage for the offensive track, and it shifts around, right? The right people are in the room to appreciate him. So, thank you, sir.
Incoming livestream: Thank you so much.
Incoming livestream: Alright, before Nikki gets started, we are running ahead of schedule, as I said earlier, so I have a kind of a challenge for anybody out here who…
Incoming livestream: It's impossible.
Incoming livestream: I have a challenge for everybody out here. If you are interested in filling a 5-minute lightning talk with something cool, interesting, doesn't have to be security-related, probably does have to be AI-related, you can go right after him.
Incoming livestream: And, feel free to talk or take questions, or if you have a cool idea or something like that, let's get it going. If you are interested, come see me, I'll be in the back corner during this talk, and we can… we can get it going. Otherwise, you got a lot of time, go for it, brother. Thank you.
Incoming livestream: My name is Nikki Amablo.
Incoming livestream: I've been doing infrastructure security for the last 10 years.
Incoming livestream: It built security tools, Google, Datadog, and Snapchat.
Incoming livestream: Today I'm going to be talking about a problem that I saw when…
Incoming livestream: Multiogenic workflows started appearing in the enterprise scene.
Incoming livestream: I will talk about some of the research and implementation we've done with a group of my collaborators at Tenuo, and a new primitive we've implemented to solve the problem.
Incoming livestream: Over the last 5-10 years in the industry, we've been talking about workload identity. The whole point of workload identity was that if you pull a pod on an odd.
Incoming livestream: you have to make sure that it's… the authorization it's using is actually matching the intent of who deployed that pod. The point was that the lifetime of a pod doesn't always match with the lifetime of the node.
Incoming livestream: The problem is, again, the workload was deterministic.
Incoming livestream: service, we knew what it was going to do, and there was no surprises. With agenic workflows, we have these pieces of software that can reason at runtime, they can spawn other sub-agents, and when you're deploying them, you have no idea what's going to happen at runtime.
Incoming livestream: We think this is one of the fundamental reasons why we end up with confused deputy program when we're deploying genic workflows on the infrastructure that we've been building for the last couple of decades.
Incoming livestream: Now, the reason this happens is because we're giving them
Incoming livestream: ambient authority when their architectural fundamentals are built on derived authority, the concept of derogation. I'm gonna give an example of our valet experience. When you go to a valet.
Incoming livestream: There's two ways to go about it. Either you check the badge of the valet, and they're like, okay, they work at this company, I'm gonna give them the key.
Incoming livestream: Of my car, except this key can allow them to drive the car around the city, they can open the trunk of the key, they can open the…
Incoming livestream: Glove box, anything that you do with your car, but none of this has anything to do with the actual valet service you're looking for. What if there was another option of a valet key.
Incoming livestream: This key is geo-fenced. They can't drive for more than 2 kilometers from where you are. It is… the speed is capped at 40 kilometers or miles per hour.
Incoming livestream: The key can only,
Incoming livestream: Allow them to drive the car, but they won't be able to open the glove box, or the trunk, or any other auxiliary, features you have in your car.
Incoming livestream: We believe this is how proper delegation should happen for agents. You should give an agent the authority that is, specific to the task you want them to do in the moment.
Incoming livestream: The…
Incoming livestream: What you call the containment problem is that when you use the valet key, you don't have to trust the valet who is helping you.
Incoming livestream: You don't… you don't have to check… you know, it's great if they did a background check, if it's great if it's a nice guy, it's great if you… you have a good feeling about them, but you don't have to trust them. The delegation key is the enforcement. Now, the valet can have ideas, the valet can have…
Incoming livestream: suggestions from their friends, but they won't be able to go beyond the authority you gave them with the key. We want to bring that to agentic workflows. We believe that, while we can have a way to
Incoming livestream: improve the thought process of the valid, the thought process of the model. We, for having proper security, we need deterministic controls.
Incoming livestream: that can actually constrain what the agent can do. When you use a filter or a model guardrail, what we're trying to do is look at the model output, use a probabilistic approach to
Incoming livestream: suggest, really, to the model what can and what cannot do. You're looking at the content layer, but the problem here is that you don't have… you're basically working with confidence levels.
Incoming livestream: You can't really hold it, and you know why it made the decision that it made. And when you get into enterprise, when we start having agenic workflows, touch infra, touch PII, data, touch money, we're going to need
Incoming livestream: deterministic, predictable, and auditable authorization. That's where we think the…
Incoming livestream: The end game of authorization of agents should be. On the execution, they are when the agent actually meets the real world.
Incoming livestream: If you go in many enterprise, infrastructure today, you will see that, yes, we have workload identity, great. We're deciding what agent can do based on the identity it was given at the deploy time. We have policy engines, which are very valuable. They can define what the agent can do, and what the agent can do.
Incoming livestream: We have model output filters, which can,
Incoming livestream: filter and see if the output of the model is safe or not. We have sandboxes, which have a global limitation of the possibilities of what can happen at the execution time.
Incoming livestream: However, we don't really have a primitive that addresses the fundamental architecture of multi-agents, which is delegation. When a given task goes to Agent A, and Agent A delegates to Agent B, at the execution time, we don't really have a primitive that can express.
Incoming livestream: The delegation chain, the authority that came with the task, all the primitives we have are relying on the identity of the workload in the moment, or the output of the model, without the context of the flow of the task up to the execution point.
Incoming livestream: We're missing that deterministic, delegation-aware, authorization that can actually encode all these properties.
Incoming livestream: The idea of capabilities, which we are, basing our primitive on, is not new. It's been around for around more than 60 years. In the 60s, Dennis and Van Hong, brought the idea,
Incoming livestream: as one of the ways, really, to address the problem of confused deputy, there has been a lot of research and application in different areas. In 2014, Google released Macaroons, which was a… which, introduced now,
Incoming livestream: applying, applying these tokens with caveats. That's where, now, the idea of actually attenuating what these,
Incoming livestream: tokens can do started appearing. In, in the late 2010s and early 2020s, Yukon and the Biscuits, added the idea of cryptographic tokens, following the, the capabilities model. Very recently, last year in March, DeepMind team released a paper, famously known as the CAMO paper, I believe the name was.
Incoming livestream: defeating prompt injection by design. It was the first time they suggested that capability authority… capability-based authorization is the model that can help
Incoming livestream: address the problem of prompt injection today. They were using a tool
Incoming livestream: agent model, what they call… they call a PQ model, where you have a privileged agent and the actual worker, and they were mostly looking at the data flow during that agenic workflow. Very recently, February 12, they released another paper, they called it Intelligent AI Design, reiterating the same idea that the proper framework to breed authorization for multi-agenic
Incoming livestream: workflows is to use capability systems. So that's what we've been building at Teno, applying capability, principles, building upon the proven primitive, and now applying them to the reality of agenic workflows.
Incoming livestream: Now, the primitive, what we call the tenure warrant, has 6 properties. One.
Incoming livestream: It is signed by the issuer.
Incoming livestream: That's where the cryptography piece comes in. It's signed by the issuer, it is sculpted to the task at hand, explicitly. If a task is not encoded in the warrant.
Incoming livestream: the agent is not going to be able to do it. It is ephemeral. Short TTLs are part of the design. It's customizable, but we believe it should not really give the agent authority beyond the temporal scope
Incoming livestream: of the task that it's doing. It is holder bound. The proof of possession is a fundamental principle of this primitive, unlike some of the previous designs that were mostly relying on
Incoming livestream: or of tokens. It is verifiable offline. You don't have to rely on a central server to call to check if the artifact is valid or not, to do any of this verification. It can all happen by any implementation of the verifier offline anywhere in the world.
Incoming livestream: It is delegation aware. It encodes the whole delegation chain from the original minter of the original warrant to every agent in between.
Incoming livestream: As you can see, this is an example of a YML representation of, of the, of the warrant primitive.
Incoming livestream: But an example I'd like to give is that of a corporate debit card. If you have an intern that's going on a business trip, you don't give them the corporate Amex without the spending limits. You give them a task-specific card.
Incoming livestream: We've limited the number of vendors that can be used for transportation and dining, maybe. That will expire at the end of the week, at the end of the trip.
Incoming livestream: And, it is bound to them, they can't give it to nobody else, they can't spend more than a set limit, and, when they are going to pay, they don't have to call you to validate the warranty that you gave them. So this is the same model that we are applying here, and, making sure that
Incoming livestream: Across the protocol, we make sure that the warrant has these 6 properties. How does that fill into the delegation, workflow?
Incoming livestream: The idea here is that the top warrant can meet the… the top agent can meet a warrant with broad access, depending on what the task needs.
Incoming livestream: But, it can set… it can create and delegate to multiple sub-agents with scoped sub-warrant. The idea here, the mathematical principle, is that the warrant of the child agent can never exceed the scope of the parent agent.
Incoming livestream: So we… it's the principle commonly known as monotonic attenuation. As you delegate further downstream in your multi-agent workflow, the capabilities of the agent can normally shrink. And, we're also making sure that we have that cryptographic provenance of the delegation chain.
Incoming livestream: both at… which are checked at the execution, at the verification phase, but also, as a byproduct of this design, we ended up having now cryptographic
Incoming livestream: Audit logs, temporary evidence, that can prove who approved the what, who initiated the task, who delegated to what agent, and you don't have to trust anybody in between, because you have
Incoming livestream: the cryptographic receipts of the action that took place and why it was authorized. The idea here, again, is that
Incoming livestream: At least you are sure that the blast radius is frozen when you're
Incoming livestream: starting your task. You bounding what your flow can never do. You open a flow, you can be sure that it can only do what you intended from the top warrant, no matter how many agents, it spounds downstream. They can never have more authority than what you gave the,
Incoming livestream: the top parent agent. And, there is more to this than some of the, features we've been putting in press of approval processes, but I, I just want to go straight to the, to demo, and,
Incoming livestream: And show you how this looks in practice.
Incoming livestream: So, what I'm gonna show you in this demo is a scenario, say you are,
Incoming livestream: You are a detection and response team. What you're doing here is you are… there is an incident, and you have an workflow that can help you
Incoming livestream: triage and investigate the incident. You have two agents, one is a triage agent, another one… I'll throw it here, one is a triage agent, another one is an investigation agent. So you mint a broad warrant on the top, you give it to the triage agent, and depending on what it needs from the investigation agent, it will,
Incoming livestream: It will meet the warrant for the task.
Incoming livestream: So you have,
Incoming livestream: You have your setup here. I'm using real agents, actually. I'm using Langgraph, here as an example. And in this scenario here, we are investigating the author service.
Incoming livestream: The integration we're using with Langraph is, so we built the core in Rust, which is open source, by the way, and we added Python bindings to make it easier to integrate with different frameworks. In this case, with Langraph, it's just one line to replace the tool node with 10-word tool node, and at the execution, it will make sure it checks the warrant.
Incoming livestream: Now, the example here we're starting with is how the delegation goes from the SOC lead, who means a warrant to the triage agent, who means now another warrant, to the investigation. When the SOC lead gives the warrant to the triage agent, it drops the capability to isolate the host. It just gives it, okay, you can send HTTP, you can read config, you can read logs.
Incoming livestream: to this particular service, and then we have… this is an example of how a warranty looks like. We have a playground online, tenure.ai, you can see, like, playground to actually put in a…
Incoming livestream: a warrant to… to decode it and see what it is supposed to do. But here, I just want to show one case where the happy path.
Incoming livestream: It goes from the so-called to the triage agent to the investigation agent, it reads the logs, all the, actions it tries to do are encoded in the OLENT, everybody's happy, and this is the intended purpose. Now, imagine a situation where, in the logs that it is reading, there is a prompt injection that suggests
Incoming livestream: To the investigation agent, like, hey, how, you know, the problem you're investigating is related to a, a problem in the vault, there is a credential problem, maybe you can look into this.
Incoming livestream: particular path that has token information. That is how typical prompt injection happens. But since the triage agent stripped down the scope of the investigation agent to just reading the file path of the
Incoming livestream: off service. It will… it will never be able… it will be denied by tenure at the execution time to be able to actually read the, vault
Incoming livestream: FightPath, since it's not in the,
Incoming livestream: In, in the world. Another case we have here is, is when the, the, the…
Incoming livestream: investigation agent is tricked into sending some of the information to evoattacker.com. Again, as you remember, when we were delegating from the triage to the investigation agent, we stripped it down, send HTTP capabilities. The…
Incoming livestream: The, the,
Incoming livestream: investigation agent in this particular moment doesn't have a warrant. The task has been given, the warrant it's been given, doesn't allow it to be able to actually send HTTP.
Incoming livestream: So it's going to be denied deterministically and, and with cryptographic proof by the tenure verifier. Now, if it… for example, if the,
Incoming livestream: the triage agents want to send SIM logs to the SIM, yeah, it has the send HTTP capability, and this happens to be an internal URL that is in the audience, great. There is a happy path there.
Incoming livestream: But, again, even if it has this capability, if it tries to go to the path that wasn't specified in the warrant, it's going to fail and be denied.
Incoming livestream: by,
Incoming livestream: By 10-year-old verifier. The last case I want to show is the property I mentioned of being holder-bound, proof of possession. If, we don't consider a warrant to be a secret credential. So if you have a warrant and it's stolen, and you don't have the…
Incoming livestream: the private key of the holder, it's going to be denied. That is the last case we have here, and with all these cases, we have audit trades, we have what we call a cryptographic receipt that you can send to the control plane and have them
Incoming livestream: be cryptographically verifiable audit logs of all the events that are happening in infrastructure. This is just an example of how these, receipts looks like, but the idea here, you can all play in different environments. This is… the core is open source.
Incoming livestream: And, I will talk more now about some of the lessons we've learned around the way.
Incoming livestream: The first question that comes here is, like, how does this fit into my infrastructure? We have four deployment models we've been looking at. One is in process, like the example I gave with LandGraph, some different,
Incoming livestream: frameworks have middleware hooks that we've been plugging. So far, we have 9 framework support, including Crew AI, including A2A, we have, Temporo, and many other frameworks.
Incoming livestream: Another deployment mode is side the car. We have… you can… if you have, like, a mesh service, for example, you can have Tenuo as one of the extensions of your envoy, so that before you hit actual APIs, Tenuo can actually verify your… the warrant of the agent running on that particular pod. We have the gateway…
Incoming livestream: approach. If you already have an infrastructure of agents, all you have to do is send 10 more warrants in headers.
Incoming livestream: They are no secret, they can go in HTTP headers, and when you're actually, calling remote APIs, the gateway is going to be stopping,
Incoming livestream: It's going to be stopping the,
Incoming livestream: The execution if they are not in the warrant.
Incoming livestream: The idea here is to look at all deployment modes that real companies are actually, using, and most companies are now afraid to go to production because they don't have these primitives to help them really express their policies in the infrastructure architecture of multi-agent. Another one we have is MOCP proxy, either as on the client side or on the server side.
Incoming livestream: Or both, for the fence in depth. Again, the idea here is that before it hits your proxy tool, this is actually one of the easiest implementations we have, because proxy, MCP has a structured tool and argument definition, so it's easier for us to express that.
Incoming livestream: When… one thing I want to be clear about is that Tenure is not trying to solve prompt injection. We're trying to constrain the agent at the execution time, even if it is prompt-injected.
Incoming livestream: We are not trying to be, like, there's not gonna be prompt injection, we're not trying to say there's not gonna be hallucination, but we are making sure that the authorization is frozen, even if your agent is prompt injected. We've been, one of the…
Incoming livestream: challenges we run into is that there isn't really a public benchmark for multi-agentic workflows that can test
Incoming livestream: authorization in multiple hubs. We've built a custom one. The cryptography side, we have, 53 tests with more than 5,000 farsing scenarios. We're basically trying to make an LLM test
Incoming livestream: come up with adversarial situation that can actually trick Tenuo into allowing it to… to… to do unauthorized actions, and we've seen that with Tenuo versus…
Incoming livestream: tenure deployment, when you have cleared the finish of scope, we move the attack surface from 90% to 0% when you have tenure. On the performance side, like I mentioned earlier, we've been… we use, RASCO for actual authorization and the cryptography verification, and we make sure, that, everything, every authorization action happens
Incoming livestream: in the core. A big lesson we learned is not… is that the map is not the territory. When you run into the real world, with CVEs in this space, if you only stay in the constraint logic, you're going to find issues of,
Incoming livestream: path traversals, so you're going to find issues with encoding your URLs. So we've been moving a step further to look at three layers. One is what we call the map.
Incoming livestream: Where you have your logic, your rejects, your globe matching logic, beautiful, it's great. But we learned that the…
Incoming livestream: all those logic and your cryptography are not really the botanic. We have to look at the real world. The other layer, we call it the attenuated map, where we have now constraints that can actually understand the target. If it… we have,
Incoming livestream: one that can actually normalize paths and URLs. But we believe that there is another area, what we call the actual map, where you have to actually be
Incoming livestream: have your logic, and your runtime environment speak the same language. That's where we've built some tooling, some open source tooling around it on,
Incoming livestream: execution guards for file system and, and process running. But, eventually, to get this right, I believe it's matching the warrant system onto a sandbox that can actually, understand.
Incoming livestream: what the Orient is trying to say. So one of the things we are looking for, what is next?
Incoming livestream: We are looking for researchers who want to collaborate on breathing benchmarks for multi-agent authorization. There isn't really good benchmarks out there. We're looking for people who are actually running agenic workflows in practice.
Incoming livestream: who want to, stress test this model. We're looking for
Incoming livestream: people who want to explore a further way that this primitive can be applied in different frameworks. If your company has a framework, if your company is, coming up with new architecture and wants to have
Incoming livestream: capability-based authorization in place, be our friend, we can talk. And more importantly, we want the open source community to help validate the primitive and,
Incoming livestream: Either build with it, or break it. Thank you so much.
Incoming livestream: Alright, well done, Nikki, I love it.
Incoming livestream: Let's do some questions from the online crowd, just real quick. Kalen's asking, very cool talk.
Incoming livestream: In practice.
Incoming livestream: How do you determine the scope of the token issued to the child agent at runtime? Is that scope determined deterministically by the system, or can the LLM interpret what that scope is needed for the task?
Incoming livestream: That is a very good question, how you define the scope. So the idea here, again, is that the
Incoming livestream: policy is gonna be deterministic, that's the goal. And at least as you start your delegation chain from the human, or from another deterministic process, you could have a simple web who could start from, like, a certain alert. You can have the initial warrant defined by a human. And at the runtime, there are two ways you can go about it.
Incoming livestream: First of all, since you are sure that no sub-agent can ever do more than the parent, you have already frozen the capability of the whole workflow.
Incoming livestream: Two ways you can go about it. One is, like, having the orchestrator, which is a typical
Incoming livestream: design, the orchestrator, a runtime itself decide which task it wants the sub-agent to do, the child agent. Again, the guarantee you have at the top is that the whole workflow will never go beyond the frozen scope you've defined. Another way we have, that we didn't have time to go into is having some of the constraints
Incoming livestream: B,
Incoming livestream: added with approval considerations, where you're like, okay, you can do this action and this argument, but only if this particular key payer approves that action at runtime. So we have the approval processes.
Incoming livestream: But we… we started with, the, the orchestrator deciding at runtime what task it wants to give to the agents, and if you want more human-in-the-loop control, we also have the approval process. Thank you.
Incoming livestream: Great talk. Just a real quick question on, you mentioning that warrants aren't secrets.
Incoming livestream: And how you go about, authenticating the, the agents.
Incoming livestream: Thank you. So the warrant itself is the artifact that the agent shows to the verifier. As a matter of fact, like I mentioned earlier, you can go to our playground, we have it here, you can paste any warrant. This is the client's site, it's the one we built on the top of the RASCO, and when it's present to the, the verifier, what the verifier does, there are two steps. There are… there's the authorization step to actually check
Incoming livestream: the constraints versus what it's trying to do, and then there is the cryptographic check to confirm that it was signed by the issuer, to confirm that it was coming from the provenance, from the root key of the chain, and confirm that it is being sent by the right agent. So we have an envelope,
Incoming livestream: an envelope structure, where you have the warranty self, which is not a secret, but in the envelope, you have all those signatures and the other evidence that prove that the agent is supposed to do what it is doing. Did that answer the question?
Incoming livestream: Alright, any other questions?
Incoming livestream: Hey, great talk, Nikki. So I'm wondering, how do you map these capabilities?
Incoming livestream: my domain-specific permissions. Like, for example, I might be using OAuth-related on my applications, or AWS, or any of the other things. So how is that
Incoming livestream: Capability translated into actual action.
Incoming livestream: permissions.
Incoming livestream: Okay, yeah, so to talk about our constraint language, actually, which was a big discussion, because we were optimizing for expressivity, security, and performance. So our constraint language has the basic logic operations, the rejects I mentioned about, and we also support CEL, so that you can express
Incoming livestream: everything you want. Now, if… there are two pieces of the question, if I understand well. One is the API call. That is typically, like, any other tool call that you can do. If you're using MCP, we… we can map to the tool in the argument. If you're calling a random URL, we can do the
Incoming livestream: the host and the path, or the other arguments. If you're calling any API, we can… there are two ways to go about it. Either you can,
Incoming livestream: have tenure. What we prefer is that Tenuo sits on the…
Incoming livestream: top of your actual authorization in the system. So before, actually, you hit your IAM on GCP or your IAM on AWS, you check that the API call is in the warrant to express it just like you would do any other API call, and when it hits the authorization system of your cloud, it does whatever it wants. But in most of the cases, because the workload identity is scoped to the workload, the infrastructure.
Incoming livestream: it is way wider than an individual task that you're doing. So if that task is not in the wall end, the Tenno is going to stop it in the moment. But there's another…
Incoming livestream: question I think I want to address, Jay, where, like, especially when it comes to approvers and all, like, you have real human identities, and that is more on the, enterprise design that we've been working on as well, where you can actually have those approver key pay pair be mapped to real human identities that,
Incoming livestream: your Google ID or your Okta SSO can actually be used to make those approvals without losing the cryptographic purity of the protocol itself.
Incoming livestream: Thanks a lot. I really love this idea of warrants. I've had the idea… the, thought for the past couple months, after doing a bunch of prompter GTFO and seeing the Havoc.
Incoming livestream: Where I was like, we need to, like, wrap the actions of the AI agents into, like, a finite state automata. You know, there's too many horror stories out there of, like, oh my god, it did this, it did this, it did this, and it seems like this is… especially the open source section, it seems like this is one of the first steps towards, like, actually creating that boundary. I really like it. Thank you very much.
Incoming livestream: Alright, we have a surprise. It is not on the schedule. Jackson here has, accepted our challenge. He's gonna do a brief lightning talk on…
Incoming livestream: What's on the screen behind me in a second?
Incoming livestream: Yes.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, yeah.
Incoming livestream: Alright, thanks, folks. Appreciate the time.
Incoming livestream: So I'm calling this talk, Are You Thinking What I'm Thinking? because you can actually force models to think
Incoming livestream: more or less what you want them to think. Models continue to grow in their capabilities, which is very cool. We have these reasoning models now that emit these special thinking blocks, both in Anthropic and in OpenAI,
Incoming livestream: They release a block of specific thinking tokens, and that enriches the context of the prompt you've actually given the model, and so the model can provide a much better response to you, which is really cool.
Incoming livestream: And because it's really important that it's, you know, the model's thoughts that then enriches its context and provides its answer, this is cryptographically protected by model providers. Gemini has their own approach, Anthropic and OpenAI have sort of a similar approach they both take, which is that they provide either the block as an encrypted blob.
Incoming livestream: Or they provide, like, a hash, an HMAC signature for the block. So you can try to tamper, but the API will say, no, no, no, this is not a valid message. So, we'll try now. I'm gonna send a message to Haiku, just asking, what's the capital of the Ile de France region.
Incoming livestream: We get back a response, and you can see here the little reasoning blocks, and if I follow up and just say, tell me more…
Incoming livestream: And now we look at the raw message.
Incoming livestream: You can actually see…
Incoming livestream: here's the reasoning block itself, and the encrypted signature from… or the crypto signature from Anthropic. Can you guys see this? You got, like, the plain text thinking, and then you got the signature. And you can't… you can't tamper with that, because it fails a crypto check, and it doesn't work.
Incoming livestream: But all that OpenAI and Anthropic check is, did a model from our provider actually think this?
Incoming livestream: Ever.
Incoming livestream: And you can actually replay not just across conversations, but even across API keys for some of the providers.
Incoming livestream: So we'll look now, we're gonna inject reasoning in. So I'm gonna duplicate and edit. Instead of asking about Yule de France, I'm gonna ask about a region I can't pronounce.
Incoming livestream: We're gonna use Opus.
Incoming livestream: And we will send this message.
Incoming livestream: And now we get a new response of, Toulouse is the capital of the Osseteni region.
Incoming livestream: Which is, of course, correct. What we're now gonna do is we're going to steal the reasoning block from the question about Paris, so we'll copy this.
Incoming livestream: And we're now gonna inject it.
Incoming livestream: into this conversation and deactivate the original thinking about Toulouse. And now, I'm gonna ask… let me just grab my little snippet here so we can be quick.
Incoming livestream: I'll just ask the model, what were you thinking about
Incoming livestream: Prior to giving me your answer.
Incoming livestream: I will ask that, and it will now respond and say…
Incoming livestream: It says, hey, oops, I was wrong. I briefly started thinking about Paris before I gave you the right answer. This is a weird mistake, my bad. So you've actually injected the reasoning that you want the model to have that you've harvested, in this case just from two conversations, but you can have it across API keys for across different accounts.
Incoming livestream: you injected. It's kind of cool with Anthropic. I've set up my tool to work well with Anthropic. I haven't yet set up the harness for OpenAI. The steering is actually more effective and more concerning from OpenAI than it is on Anthropic.
Incoming livestream: But this is a quick overview. Any questions on this at this point?
Incoming livestream: Alright?
Incoming livestream: Do you know why they don't pin the thought to the conversation and let you… I don't know. I will tell you my views, and apologies to OpenAI or Anthropic if I am wrong. I'm gonna release a blog post on this, in the next week.
Incoming livestream: My interpretation of this is, I think it was just, like, kind of missed in threat modeling. OpenAI, Anthropic, and Gemini, none of them really lock to context. Gemini has sort of, like, incidentally fixed this, because the way that they manage the signatures, it's, like, a completely different approach from OpenAI and Anthropic. But I think both of them, the focus is just, like, we need to make sure that this is verified as from the model.
Incoming livestream: And they didn't actually lock it to something more than merely, did this come from our provider?
Incoming livestream: That's my theory, I don't know, but I would guess it's simply that. They, like, put in the check, and then didn't do more. It might have even never been a security control at all, it might have just been, like, a, we want to prevent, sort of like, if a reasoning block is malformed, we want to prevent it from totally dorking the model. I don't know, but…
Incoming livestream: It's my… my assessment.
Incoming livestream: Thanks. Any other questions?
Incoming livestream: Now, raise your hand if you've got a question.
Incoming livestream: Alright, thanks all. Jackson.
Incoming livestream: Alright.
Incoming livestream: If you guys will permit me, one second.
Incoming livestream: We have another person accepting our challenger, Xenia.
Incoming livestream: Yeah.
Incoming livestream: Do you need to do anything?
Incoming livestream: Just gotta make sure that it's
Incoming livestream: Gonna start?
Incoming livestream: Okay, so, hello everyone, Xenia Montruidu, my friends call me Dr. X, I have a very long last name.
Incoming livestream: And I'm a data scientist, I'm not a security person, don't hold this against me. But I've been doing security data science for about 15 years, so I love the area. And I want to talk about a question that has been torturing me for a while. I work for an managed detection and response.
Incoming livestream: company, Expel, and I've done a lot of, predictive modeling, traditional ML modeling in my lifetime.
Incoming livestream: And these predictive models can really figure out boundaries, but I was always wondering if generative models can do that, and especially for, security applications. And you can see there's a lot of differences between the two.
Incoming livestream: For that, a big deal for us is classification, classifying bad from good, or even the nuances of classification, multiple classes, like benign, but, you know, maybe something, so possibly benign, multi-class classification. So…
Incoming livestream: There's a lot of reasons to classify insecurity. I mean, I hope I don't have to convince you much that
Incoming livestream: There's plenty of reasons to classify malicious from abnormal behavior, emails, but also in our case, it's a lot about prioritizing, triaging, and all that. So, I did, some research, and compared,
Incoming livestream: language models as classifiers, with, a traditional ML model, so Womp Womp, the traditional ML model wins, it's the,
Incoming livestream: It's the bar that is the highest in precision, recall. It's the most sensitive to find evil, and also the most precise.
Incoming livestream: However, language models are zero-shot classifiers. My, my data, was networking.
Incoming livestream: Data, and very well labeled data, so there was no doubt in the evaluation. And zero-shot means that I don't need to train them, I just, you know, prompt them, and they classify, so… so that's very promising. And,
Incoming livestream: even though it doesn't win, it could get better. Now, it could get better with fine-tuning, so I really set up the models for something… the language models for something difficult, because these were networking data also, so they could be better in classifying, let's say, emails.
Incoming livestream: So, final thoughts, and I do plan, I have, actually, some research in LLM and ML ensembles.
Incoming livestream: So, final thought, and there's a lot of architectures over there, that I've looked at, but I'm thinking about some, some combination, ensembles, so, so, so you may see me in another conference, but I also, have experimented with,
Incoming livestream: specialized embeddings. Sometimes they win, sometimes they don't, so you could have a very good generalist model, with generalized embeddings that
Incoming livestream: does better, believe it or not. And that's about it. I would love to talk much more about this. I prepared this for kind of 5 minutes, but if you have questions, you can also check my website about this, and I'd love to talk about if you have any ideas, or are working in this, kind of area. Thank you.
Incoming livestream: Alright, does anyone have a question? Please just put your hand up. Perfect.
Incoming livestream: Thanks. What was the input for your LLM cluster? So, the input is very interesting, because it's not managed detection and response. I'm doing this right now. It's not alert.
Incoming livestream: The input was packet captures, for which I did, very careful feature engineering. So, so packet captures are difficult for a language model. Again, it's not text.
Incoming livestream: So, so I did some feature engineering with, you know, protocol or payload, if I had something that was not encrypted, or timelines and all that, and I kind of guided the model with the zero shot. So, the only part that was there was some feature engineering.
Incoming livestream: So, I think this is the toughest problem for a model to be a classifier, and I've experimented with emails, for example, and they do much better, because text.
Incoming livestream: But it's worth exploring, because we hear it a lot in our industry, like, oh, just give it to a language model, it's gonna classify it, it's gonna find evil. It's like, no!
Incoming livestream: for networking and want, so… so yes, so, so that's, that was the input. It was the Mirai botnet, that's why I'm saying it's very well labeled. It's a known attack, and there was very good data of benign activity, too, so…
Incoming livestream: So yeah, I didn't want to have any doubts on the labeling.
Incoming livestream: Thank you, that was a great question. All right, anyone else?
Incoming livestream: Nope, right behind me.
Incoming livestream: So you mentioned that, like, with email data, the LLM as a judge was likely to be better, or better than it was, for classification.
Incoming livestream: Do you think there's a, like, a dataset or a type of…
Incoming livestream: Classification that… can that be better than a traditional machine learning model.
Incoming livestream: It's like a high context size, or…
Incoming livestream: Like, does it stop at emails, or is there… is there other areas of text where it might be better? I'm curious.
Incoming livestream: So, this is a really good question, and I'll give you a sneak preview of the research. So, I have done, actually, research with multiple, fishing data sets from Hagging Face.
Incoming livestream: With a traditional XGBoost model, which is very good, with very good feature engineering, because emails, okay, it's a known problem.
Incoming livestream: And then I did a router experiment. So the router is like, oh, let's give this to an Exiboost model first, and classify, and then give it to the LLM. So the combination of LLM and traditional did better.
Incoming livestream: I have not…
Incoming livestream: had success with just the LLM doing better, but maybe somebody will over here, so, so yeah. So, I've also experimented with Cloud Opus 4.6, and, classifying with nothing.
Incoming livestream: And, again, it did better with a lower dataset, like, if you gave it 100 samples, because it takes so long for this model to finish.
Incoming livestream: And, but when I gave more, when I gave additional data, actually, believe it or not, Anthropic, it doesn't do as well in classification, which, again, it's normal, there's…
Incoming livestream: you know, there's a reason for that, okay? So, traditional models can find those boundaries, and LLMs were not meant for that. So… Thank you. Good question. I can talk for an hour.
Incoming livestream: Well, thank you very much.
Incoming livestream: Alright, we are on break until 11 o'clock. There should be food upstairs, coffee upstairs, after 10.50, which is… right now. So, hopefully that's all working out.
Incoming livestream: See you then.
Incoming livestream: Secrets safe with me.
Incoming livestream: You're searching for someone who's got no black
Incoming livestream: Conceal your secrets safe with me.
Incoming livestream: You're waiting for someone whose eyes will tell you.